= English

* home: http://rubyworks.github.com/english
* work: http://github.com/rubyworks/english


== DESCRIPTION

English is a spin-off of Facets, collecting together all English
language libraries together under a single unified project. The English
project intends to provided a general purpose set of English-oriented 
text manipulation and natural language processing Ruby libraries in one
convenient package.


== RELEASE NOTES

Please see the HISTORY file.


== SYNOPSIS

The primary means of usage is via the English::String class.
A normal Ruby +String+ can be quickly concerted to an +English::String+
class using the +#en+ method. With the converted object you can
call any of the string-based English methods.

  require 'english/inflect'

  "Goose".en.plural  #=> "Geese"

By loading the 'language/mixin' library, you can further remove
the need for the #en method. Instead the Language module will
use whatever language is set as *current*. By default 'en' is
the current language setting.

  require 'language/mixin'

  "Goose".plural  #=> "Geese"

To load the entire English library, including the 'lanaguage/mixin'
script, simply use:

  require 'english'

See Language project for more information on support for other languages.
For details on all the methods the English library supplies see the
<a href="rubyworks.github.com/english/rdoc/">API documentation</a>.


== INSTALLATION

Using RubyGems

  $ sudo gem install english

We do not recommend site installations any longer, but if you need
to do so, you can download the .tar.gz file from GitHub and use
<a href="proutils.github.com/setup/">Ruby Setup<a/> to install
English manually:

  $ tar -xvzf english-1.0.0.tar.gz
  $ cd english-1.0.0
  $ sudo setup.rb

For Windows users the last line needs to be 'ruby setup.rb'.


== TESTING

To run the test suite without installing, you can use:

  $ script/test


== AUTHORS

As with many good programming libraries, portions were derived from
the efforts of many good programmers. English oews it's existence
to the hard work of following developers:

* Paul Battley
* Kurt Dresner
* Michael Granger
* George Moschovitis
* Michael Neumann
* Aaron Patterson
* Ray Pereda
* Lawrence Philips
* Martin Porter
* Thomas Sawyer
* Louis J Scoras
* Stephen Woodbridge


== COPYING

English, Copyright (c) 2006–2010 Thomas Sawyer

Some libraries within English are copyrighted to respective authors,
or are derivatives of such acknowledged work. See the library files
for copyright notices.

The English collection is distributed under the terms of the MIT license.

